---
permalink: /
layout: page
---

#### It's important to know how we spend our time

Keeping track of how time is spent is essential to consultants and many
professional industries. It's the data used to bill clients, and thus make
money.

There are a plethora of tools available today which strive to accomplish this
goal, but they all seem to fall short. Some are very basic and act as little
more than an exagerated spreadsheet and others claim to be revolutionary
concepts that will bring us new found productivity. The problem is that they
all expect us to adapt to them, and frankly we just don't have the time or
patience.

MOM aims to have one single goal, which is to find out how you spend your time.
You should not have to learn how to use the tool, it should cater to your
instinctive impulses. It should go out of it's way to learn how you think so
that it can make sure that you are on point. It should think like your mom.

#### MOM is designed to evolve

All too often software is built deep within the bowels of software shops, away
from real human feedback. When it is exposed to feedback it is often from small
pockets of culture that tend to be disaccociated from how real people think,
often making obscure assumptions about an ideal world.

MOM is being built as 100% open-source and right out in the open. The project
welcomes discussion from anyone and we promise to engage with you. We don't
promise to bend to your will, but we certainly aim to understand where you are
coming from. Understanding what people are trying to do with software is
quinessential to getting it right. It makes no sense to build something that
people must adapt to. Period.

From the beginning MOM has been designed to be flexible in its technical
approach. MOM aims to push the boundaries of how operational software is built.
We believe that if done right, progress can be uninhibited and natural. If it
makes people's lives easier, people will make it better... for free. The
problem at hand affects developers, designers and great thinkers alike.

#### How much time do we waste?

The popular notion today is that if you work really hard, good things will
come. This may have been true in an age when the human workforce was responsible
for outputting the product that allowed for the supply and thus met the demand.
Fewer and fewer of us work in jobs where we are responsible for outputting
the supply. Today most of us sit in front of comupters and preform tasks
that perpetuate something which is untangleable.

There is very little evidence to show that working 9-5 at five days a week
accomplishes more. It is very possible that doing so offers little more than
appeasing old world beliefs. Even more troubling is the idea that the workforce
is forgetting the notion of progress altogether. Instead they police each other
to ensure that everyone is doing their duty. It is possible that the systems
which we interact with have not been getting better because they are the only
thing left which justifies our work habits.

New companies are emerging everyday which operate in ways that challenge these
beliefs. What we need is data to show us what works best, so we can understand
how to work better. Economics is about progress above all else. MOM is designed
to collect this information as acurately and efficiently as possible. The more
data we can collect, the more we have to learn from.

Ideas like [Pomodoro](http://pomodorotechnique.com/) are already showing us
that breaking up the tasks we work on can have rewards. What else can we
learn?
